# stork_route_selection_public

This repository contains R scripts to reproduce the results and figures of "Experience reduces reliance on conspecifics for route selection by a collectively migrating soaring bird" by Bronnvik et al. 2023 in preparation.

# Abstract
Migration can be a risky and an energetically costly behavior with strong fitness consequences in terms of mortality and reproduction. To reduce their costs, many migrating animals travel in groups, exploiting information generated by others regarding resources and routes. For soaring birds, atmospheric uplifts are crucial resources and energetically rewarding routes should secure their support. Individuals of different ages may differ in their abilities to detect invisible uplifts and select these energetically rewarding routes. We expect that inexperienced individuals will rely more on traveling in groups and be less able to locate uplift independently than experienced birds. Here, we analyze the migratory routes of white storks (Ciconia ciconia) tagged as juveniles and tracked over repeated migrations to ask how migratory route selection develops. For each individual migration track, we quantified how the availability of conspecific density and uplift affected route choice. We found that white storks always preferred routes that increased their access to high conspecific densities and to uplift. As they aged, storks grew less selective on conspecific density and traveled at times with fewer other migrants, revealing that they gained independence.\

# Contents:
This repository consists of the R scripts:
01_data_location.R: accesses, cleans, and segments the data that we used for our analyses.
02_step_generation.R: provides the script necessary for generating alternative steps for step-selection analysis (adapted from Nourani et al. 2021 https://github.com/mahle68/global_seascape_public/blob/main/step_generation.R)
03_uplift_annotation.R: downloads ECMWF ERA-5 data and annotates the stork locations with the convective velocity scale.
04_utilization_distribution_estimation.R: builds auto-correlated kernel density estimates for each hour of the tracking data and annotates the stork locations with utilization distribution probability density.
05_step_selection_analysis.R: uses the data generated in the previous scripts to run the step selection analyses.
06_plotting_WS.R: plots exploratory and results figures from the paper and supplement.

All input data are available on Movebank.org
